I guess I just had a thought.
I kind of answered it for myself here.
But we put in those dev tools, so we put in the React
and the 10-stack dev tools.
And I was curious.
My question to myself was, hey, can I
inspect that call just there?
And I absolutely can.
But I'm wondering if, I guess maybe this
is general for now or later, if there
are any common uses you have of those dev tools.
I think we put them in there, and I haven't really
touched them since.
Yep.
So to your good point here, you can
click the 10-stack query dev tools down here.
You'll see both queries and mutations up here.
You can see our query mutation right there.
This is just helpful for me to see,
did it happen and what data got sent?
That's 95% of my question.
The other thing, I could definitely just look at the network tab
and see what happened there.
But it's nice that it's here.
I can see everything, like what happened, what came back,
how many things were subscribed to it,
what kind of event triggered it, all that kind of stuff.
So do I need to see, is it cancelable all the time?
No, probably not.
Or probably never is probably closer to what I would say.
But it's cool that it's there.
And there are input validations.
Should we be using uncontrolled forms?
Not necessarily.
It depends on how you want to do it.
So first of all, the browser already has some built into it.
So if I just do this, it's going to say,
please enter an email address.
That's from Firefox, right?
That's not from anything.
That's just from Firefox saying, this
isn't at least remotely approaching
a valid email address.
It's pretty loose, right?
So it will still allow some pretty weird things through.
It probably will let that go.
It didn't, right?
And that's obviously not a valid email address.
But if you were trying to do a valid date of birth,
and you want to make sure that it's
like within the past 150 years or something like that,
I still probably would do that on submit.
And why?
Because I don't want, I hate, it's a huge pet peeve of mine.
If I start typing my birthday, which is like 05,
and then it turns red and it's like, oh, enter
a valid birthday.
I'm not done yet.
Stop telling me that I don't have a valid,
because I'm working on it.
And so that's why I don't like using a controlled input,
because it would immediately show you
that something is wrong, right?
When in reality, you want to show them at the end,
it's like, no, actually you have to be born
within the past 150 years for this to be valid.
You would do that on submit, not on key down, right?
So still I would use, I would do uncontrolled for that,
and then just do it on the submit where I would do that.
I don't know, there's probably other reasons as well.
In my page, it has fields which has dependencies
on other fields, for instance, state and city.
For that, should we use controlled forms?
Yeah, that's a really good place to do it.
So let's say you put zip code, right?
And for example, in my old zip code in Seattle,
you could see this that you live in Seattle,
or you could say you live in Greenwood.
Both are technically valid places.
And you would show that probably in a dropdown.
And you would do that based on zip code, which
wouldn't be populated until they put their zip code in.
You would use a controlled input for that.
I'm not telling you to do great, terrible things
to avoid using controlled inputs,
but just mostly that they're not necessary for things
of this nature, where this is an extremely normal looking form.
And therefore, it's very valid to just not have
to do anything controlled about it.
Cool.
Again, we didn't hit any errors.
Let's say that we hit like a 500, or what is it?
437, I am a teapot error, something like that.
But inside of post-contact, this response
was not OK, which is basically anything that's under 400.
It would throw the error here.
And then inside of contact, we would get a flag here
from 10-stack query.
And you could do something like if, where is it?
Mutation.isError.
And you can see there's a bunch of them.
IsPending, isPause, isIdle, isSuccess, blah, blah, blah.
But if error, you can just return something, again,
very customer friendly, like, well, no, something
like that, right?
And that's how you'd handle errors in their posts.
Yeah, Mark?
Is there a case where you'd use both uncontrolled forms
but controlled input?
Yeah, I mean, you can kind of see that I do that in order.
So if you look here, we have this whole form.
But I'm handling all of the data on submit.
And then where am I taking that data?
So this is a set card.
So I guess I'm just doing this directly with the things
that I have set in state.
But there's no reason that I couldn't have just
done something like const form data equals new form data,
right, and done it the exact same way.
Both are fine.
At this point, you're kind of splitting hairs
of what's controlled and what's uncontrolled
to really the answer is it doesn't really matter, right?
Just write the code that looks the best.
But sure, yeah, there's certainly
you're going to have things where some of the inputs
will be controlled.
Some of them will not be controlled.
And you'll get it all off the form data.
That would make sense to me.
It's not a binary thing where either it's all controlled
or all uncontrolled.
You can do both.